500,000 people. That's the amount of
people who registered for my last book
launch for $100 million leads. But
that's not even the crazy part. The
crazy part is that almost a third of
those people didn't even know who I was.
They were actually referred to the
launch by other people for free. Most
businesses don't know how to use this
advertising method. And so, I'm going to
show you not just the theory, but the
tactics of how I'm setting up the
affiliate structure for my $100 million
money models launch so that you can take
every single tactic cuz you're going to
understand how in-depth it really is. is
if you want to use this as your
advertising strategy for your business
or whatever it is you sell. So, first
things first, what the hell is an
affiliate? So, we're opening up our fun
leads book. And an affiliate is a lead
getter. Somebody who gets you leads. All
right? They're an independent business
that tells their audience to buy your
stuff. Affiliates seem like referrals on
the outside, but are much different
under the hood. First, they own their
own businesses and do their own
advertising. Second, they agree to offer
your stuff to their engaged leads in
exchange for money, free stuff, or both.
So, just like any business should always
start with the offer, which is what are
you going to sell? What are you going to
give away? Affiliates is the same thing.
They're a new customer that you have to
think about. What's the offer I'm going
to make the affiliate? Again, it's
money, free stuff, or both. Now, you can
use whatever one you want. You can do
combinations for my $100 million leads
and $100 million money models launch.
I'm using free stuff. Number one reason
for that is because paperwork-wise, it's
an absolute pain in the ass to pay a
gazillion people with 1099s and it's a
nightmare. But beyond that, I can also
still provide value that probably be
better than maybe just some sort of
kickback. back. And that's the thing is
that sometimes the non-monetary value
can be significantly higher than just
trying to pay someone 10% back or
something like that. And especially if
you have something like a book, which is
not super expensive, these other things
can make it worth it for an audience.
But let's get into the offer. So,
whenever I set up an affiliate
structure, I want to have a two-tiered
structure. So, what that means is I want
to have something for all the killers at
the top who are going to send me a bunch
of people with big audiences and
whatnot. And I want to have something so
that the everyman can still get
something because I still want the
longtail. I still want all the people
who can bring three friends, five
friends, 10 friends. And I also want the
people who want to bring 10,000. So you
don't want to have something that's only
for one or the other. You want both. I
think about it like this. If we draw
this, what are the big players getting?
So for us, we're doing top 10 people get
a fireside in-person one- on-one Q&A
session. Now, there's some thinking
behind this. Why do we do this? We do
this because the prizes you want to give
an affiliate has to not only benefit the
affiliate, it also has to benefit their
audience. This is something that like so
many people don't get. You can get
significantly higher engagement from
affiliates if they don't feel like
they're hard closing their audience on
your thing cuz at the end of the day
they're like I got to save my my
goodwill, my whatever for my own stuff.
And that makes sense. Of course they do.
So it's like how can we make the thing
that we're going to give them something
that's a give to their audience so it
doesn't detract from the goodwill they
have and ideally it adds to the goodwill
so that you ultimately benefit them and
their audience. So, you want a
win-winwin win for you and for the
affiliate and their people. With the
fireside chat, the key is their audience
is going to want to click through their
link so that they can submit their
questions so that the person who
represents them can then ask those
questions on their behalf. So, this
becomes very valuable. Like, oh, we're
in the ATM niche. It's like, okay, well
then how do we apply some of this Alex
big business stuff to an ATM niche?
Well, they wouldn't probably get that
answer answered otherwise unless it's
like that guy's in front of me and
that's what we're talking about for 30
minutes in person. Now, the next tier is
like, okay, well, some people are going
to be like, well, top 10, that might be
tough, but I think I can hit the top 50.
Okay, well, the top 50 can be there in
person, so they're approximations of
this thing. They're still in person. And
then I'm basically taking 3 hours. This
is in person, all of this, at my
headquarters where I'm going to do Q&A.
I'll be able to answer maybe a question
from them, but they're going to be
there. They're going to meet one
another. Still super valuable, great
experience. Okay, that's the top 50. On
top of this, there's also a dinner that
I'm taking all the uh all the top 10
guys out to, so it's even cooler. Now
what about the bottom guys? So 10 plus.
So first we have to decide what is the
thing that is the kind of bottom. What's
the minimum activation point for someone
to become an affiliate or referral that
gets something. All right. This depends
on how difficult it is to do. So if I
said like you have to bring someone in
person to my facility like a gym or
something then it might be two people
because that's a lot of work. Now if
it's just like can you make me a text
introduction? It's like that might be
you know a four or five. Now if it's
just can you get someone to opt into
something I have to make that higher
because the friction is so low. I made
it 10 plus. That's what I did last year.
It worked great. So, I'm doing it again.
If somebody can get 10 plus opt-ins into
my thing, for us it's the book launch,
then they're going to get multiple
things. So, number one is they're going
to get an audio book. That's not the
book for the launch. It's actually a
separate book I recorded specifically
for my affiliates. 70 plus one minute
tactics that drive profit in businesses.
So, it's like it's just super
bite-sized, very tactical, really cool.
And I made something really sexy because
I want that long tail. people who just
just want to invite their 10 their 10
friends or their Slack group or their
WhatsApp group or their school
community, whatever it is. They're like,
I don't think I'm going to get top 50,
but if you think you're going to invite
20 or 30 people, then get credit for it.
You know, get some free stuff, but on
top of that, what else can I do? Well,
there's also these 50 other seats on
this day over here. Well, I could just
say top 100, but wouldn't it be more
valuable to say, hey, I'll raffle these
off to 50 of the people who get this.
So, that's what we're doing. So, this is
the offer. This is the thing that we
give away. The stuff that we want to do
is number one, you want it to be big and
sexy. Number two, I like things that are
unscalable, especially at the top. Of
course, I can't do a fireside chat with
a thousand people. It wouldn't work for
them, wouldn't work for me, wouldn't
work. But how can I create something
great that many people would want and
then create varying levels of
approximation to this, which then adds
in the last piece here, which is
everybody who's over that 10 gets a
recording. Top 10 guys get to be in
person with their questions answered and
a dinner. The top 50 get three hours and
a shot at getting their question, but
they're still in person and they still
get the experience. If you're in the
just 10 plus opt-ins, you're going to
get an audiobook. You're going to get a
shot at getting in the room, and you're
still going to get a recording, which is
an approximation of that. So, I try to
think, how could this be something that
would benefit their audience and benefit
them and lad our way up to performance?
I'll spend two days on just coming up
with this stuff. The amount of different
permutations we came up with to try and
make this clear and simple and
compelling and beneficial to every party
was tough. But now we fit it in and
you're like, "Oh, well, it seems obvious
now." It's like it always seems obvious
in retrospect. And so when you're
thinking about yours, it's like this is
the highest leverage thing you can do.
If you make the offer good enough, you
can get you can move mountains. So now
that we have our offer, the next thing
that comes up, how are we going to tell
people about this offer so that they
sign up for it? So that brings the next
thing up. Now that you have the offer,
you have to put a place that people can
find out about it. And so what we did is
we built an affiliate sales page. All
right? So, it is exactly what it sounds
like, which is we have to sell people on
why they should become an affiliate or
why they should refer their friends to
our thing. An affiliate sales page is
fairly straightforward. It's just
explaining each of the prizes and
exactly what they have to do and how
we're going to help them do it. For us,
I already went over the prizes. The what
they have to do is they have to opt in,
right? So, they just put their name and
email, etc., and then they submit this.
And what happens is they then get a
little link that they use to then rank
on the leaderboard and send all their
traffic through. It's like, okay, that's
the how. Now, what else am I going to
do? Well, one is I'm going to support
them. And the other thing is that once I
know how I'm going to support them, then
once I have this whole machine together,
then I'm going to start promoting it.
So, the way that we're going to support
the affiliates is that we actually write
them emails and posts and ads that we
have already pre-approved and written
that we already know worked because we
did it last year. And so we give them
all of these ads, posts, and emails to
send to their lists that they don't have
to do any work, right? You don't want to
have be like, "Okay, go make a campaign
for me." It's like, that's a big ask,
right? But if I said, "Hey, here's some
posts we already know work. Here's the
ads that already worked. Here's the
emails that already work." People like,
"Okay, cool. I'll just copy and paste
these and maybe change a couple things."
I want to make it easy to become an
affiliate to get the benefits. So, we
give this. Now, on top of this, because
I'm a maniac, what else do affiliates
want? At least in my audience, a lot of
them want to know what's happening
behind the scenes. While the actual
launch is going, one of the exclusive
benefits we give to our affiliates. So,
this is like maybe you could say it's
related to this offer, but it's kind of
like a like a dotted line is that behind
the scenes, we're actually sharing how
each email is doing, what the what ads
are performing, and so they can actually
kind of follow along so that when they
want to promote whatever it is that they
sell, they can actually learn the
process from the outside in, which I
think is really cool and probably one of
the most underrated components of
becoming an affiliate. Now, once we have
that plus our BTS breakdowns, now we
have our machine. And so, now what do we
have to do? We got to promote the hell
out of this thing. And so, we're not
just going to promote it in one place.
We're going to promote it in many. So,
the first thing that I'm going to do is
I'm going to email my list. And you
don't want to do this a ton because,
hey, I mean, I want to promote the book,
not promote promoting the book, right?
And so, I do this two times. Just one
saying, "Hey, FYI, we have this. And by
the way, in case you missed it, that's
it. After that, I'm not going to talk
about it again. All my focus is going to
be on the actual launch itself. That's
number one. The second place that I'm
going to look is last year's affiliates.
Now, some of you guys might not have
this, but I just want to be transparent
and complete here. Is that I want to
say, okay, well, we had 30 something
thousand affiliates last year who
promoted our stuff. I'm going to say,
"Hey, you did this. Want to do it
again?" If you liked how it was last
time and you liked having the behind the
scenes, you like the bonuses, you like
competing for stuff, which automatically
just makes the whole event more fun
because you know that you're in the
drawing, do you want to do it again?
Let's run it back. And so there's going
to be people that I'm going to email
here one or two times separately as
well. I feel okay emailing them extra
because they already opted in to be an
affiliate before. So I'm not emailing
the whole list, just this very small
segment. Now, what else are we going to
do? Every single person who opts in for
the book, this guy, our product service,
is going to then have the option to at
the bottom, if they say, you know what,
I just pre-ordered the book and now I'm
at the thank you page where it gives me
the reminder sequence to make sure that
I show up for the event. If it says,
hey, do you want to send anybody else or
you have an audience? Uh, would you like
to get more free prizes? If they click
the button there, it takes them to the
affiliate sales page. And so all of
these traffic sources are going to one
place that then feeds into the machine
where they get the behind-the-scenes
training of what we're doing, plus the
actual deliverables that they can get
all
so they can win these prizes. Now, on
top of this, to make this the most meta
thing ever, this video is also something
that is for affiliates. So, this is the
affiliate YouTube video, which is both
me explaining how it works, but also
showing how the machine is being put
together as I'm putting it together,
which by the way, when you pre-order for
the book, if you already have on the
thank you page, there's a button at the
bottom. You can hit it and you go to the
affiliate sales page. And I'll probably
put the link somewhere here or here
somewhere, magic that you can go to sign
up. All right, very simple. By the way,
if you're thinking about this, it's
like, okay, what are all the advertising
methods that we're using? We are using
warm and cold outreach via us reaching
out to our existing affiliates to see if
we can bring the high leverage people
on. Email is also the same thing there.
Posting free content. That's what this
is. That's what this video is. I'm not
running ads to get affiliates because
I'd rather just focus on the book and
let that flow come in through here. So,
I guess technically I am running ads to
get pre-orders for the book and
registrations for the book, but then it
ultimately still leads to promoting the
book itself if you were going to do it
anyways. And we use all of these core
four in order to get the affiliates. And
then the affiliates we then spin the
same things for them. How do you make
posts? How do you make emails? How do
you make ads so that they can do the
same thing for us. So that is the cycle
of the core four and the lead getters
being done together. You tell people
about your stuff and then other people
tell people about your stuff. That's the
game. So now that we know what our offer
is and we know how we're going to build
the machine and we know how we're going
to promote the affiliates, well, we
can't just expect that they're just
going to be like, "Oh, great. I'm just
going to magically promote all your
stuff. Of course not. And again, this is
another place where businesses follow
up. So, if any of the three steps I went
over you weren't doing for your stuff,
well, you could just stop right there.
It's not going to work, right? You have
to have every one of these pieces. If
you expect people to actually promote
your stuff, you got to make it worth it
for them. You got to let them know about
it. And you got to make it easy. So,
what do we do? So, number one is we want
to have some sort of onboarding plus
activation. The simple thing is
obviously, well, you got to opt in.
Fine. That's the first thing you do. The
next thing is if we can get any other
data on the affiliates that helps us out
so we can help them out, we'll do that
too. The next is we want to have some
sort of fast reward, right? And so the
way that we do that is they get their
custom link because if they don't
believe that you have good attribution
tracking, they're like, "Wait, why am I
going to send all this track if I don't
know that you're actually going to count
it for me?" So we have to have a custom
link that they know and we have to
demonstrate that we have good
attribution. Now, the way that we do
that is through a leaderboard. So we
want to show in real time that their
stuff is getting tracked and they can
know how they stack up compared to
everybody else. So the next thing after
we give them the onboarding, they get
their custom link, they get
attributions, they're like, "Okay,
they're all set up." Is we give the
collateral. So I talked about this
briefly before, but I want to make this
like a very big point because this is
where a lot of people fall off again. Is
that if you expect them to make an
entire campaign to launch your thing,
good luck. It's not going to happen,
right? So it's like you have to make it
fast and easy. And so what we do is one
is there's the regular communication.
Now part of that is just awesome and fun
because anybody who markets or sells
stuff like love I mean I myself included
I love to know like what are the
winners? What's working now? Like what
are some of the stats? Like that's the
stuff that we share behind the scenes
and I think that generates like a ton of
interest or at least it did last year.
People really loved it and honestly we
enjoy doing it because it's like we
can't share any of this stuff and so
it's like cool to at least share it with
some people who who dig this thing. So
regular communication is one of them but
the other is is knowing the winners. All
right. And so this is where we create
the blackbooks. This is all the
collateral that you will use plugand
play that you can use into your
marketing again and it's going to be all
of the different ways to market content
ads outreach via email typically right
and when we have all those things
including test messages which we also
give so that people can message their
threads their slacks at work so that
people just don't have to think about
it. This is another thing that makes
them more successful. And one of the
other benefits here is that if we, you
know, write the collateral, then we know
that everything is being represented
properly. So it's not like this is going
to be get rich quick. Like no, of course
not, right? But we want to make sure
that we're just, you know, that the
messaging is aligned, that everyone who
comes in is expecting the same things so
that we can deliver on expectations. And
included within that is some obvious
like compliance guidelines. Don't
promote anything like don't don't lie.
That's basically all it comes down to.
Don't lie. Don't exaggerate. Just state
the facts, tell the truth, and everyone
will be fine. We actually break the
collateral into two pieces. So basically
we have this is what we're starting
with. Then as time goes on we say hey
here are the winners. And so that means
either new ads that we're doing or we
can at least take here's all the stuff
that you know we're starting with and
then here's the stuff that's really
converting. And then that way the
affiliates can double down on what's
working and use your data to win for
their audience. And then if you're like
well what's the regular communication?
Well there's two components to the
communication. One is cool stuff right
which is here's the neat stuff here's
the data. All that jazz right? That's
the That's kind of thing one that we
announced. The next is we have the
leaderboard, which you absolutely need
to send out as frequently as possible
because believe it or not, people want
to check that thing daily. Anybody who's
actually competing wants to know, you
know, where they're at, right? They want
to know if they're doing okay. And so
this gives them that way of giving a
feedback loop of you're doing a good
job, keep doing what you're doing. And
then as people move up the leaderboard,
typically my director of marketing, my
team will actually talk to the top ones
as they kind of move up and filter the
board so that we can help them do even
more. So it's like kind of almost an
additional unstated incentive is that if
you crush it, we want to help you crush
it even more. So one of the really
important things that we that we like to
think of is who are quote affiliates
because affiliates like there's
different words in different industries
for the same thing. So fundamentally
anybody who promotes your stuff is a
promoter. Now some people like in the
physical products world they call them
influencer advertising. If it's
customer-driven then it's UGC. It's
userenerated content. If it's in the
kind of direct response world, they call
them affiliates. What the hell? And you
know, in the brick and mortar world,
they just call them referrals. In the
finance world, they call them uh uh
centers of influence, COIs. Uh in other
places, they call them joint ventures.
Like the number of names for the exact
same thing is exhausting. But all they
fundamentally are are people who tell
other people about your stuff for some
reason, money, free stuff, or just
because they love the product. When I'm
thinking through this, it's like I want
to make sure that for every type or
genre, I can speak their language. I
want to make posts frame my stuff for
people who have warm audiences on
Instagram or YouTube or you know that in
terms of how they're communicating in a
specific way so they can use it. Right?
If you're somebody who has an email list
and you're more textbased info, you've
got a substack, you've got a you've got
you're on X, you're on LinkedIn, you do
more blog style stuff, it's like that I
want to make sure that I can set you up.
If you're somebody who's just a really
good advertiser, some guys just, it's
funny because last year I had, some of
the top guys were just, they're just
really good at paid ads. They didn't
even have any of this stuff. They're
just like, "Oh, I'll just take the ads.
I'll run them. I know I can just make my
way into the top 50." It's exactly what
they did, right? And so, it's like I
want to make sure that those guys are
taken care of by giving them the ads
that I know that are working that are
pre-approved. They don't have to I have
zero friction. They just take them, run
them. As you're building this for your
business, it's like you want to make
sure that you're taking care of every
single type of affiliate because as soon
as there's friction, they'll stop. And
so, it's like you want to make it easy.
You want to make it fast and you want to
make it personalized to them. If you
want to sell something using other
people's audience, which is free with
the caveat that you give them some
strong incentive to do so, then the
first thing that we start with
is why the hell should they do this?
Which is you have to make the offer for
the affiliates. And you want to make the
offer beneficial for you, beneficial for
them, and beneficial for their audience
so that it doesn't feel like an ask from
them to their people because you don't
want to take away from them. The next
is, okay, once you build that offer,
it's like, how do you how are you going
to tell people about it? Well, you got
to have some place that exists, you have
some sort of promotion, and then you
have some sort of followup. All right?
And so, the place that exists, I like
having an affiliate sales page, an
influencer sales page, a partner page, a
center of influence page, a JV page,
whatever you want to say or call it.
People letting other people know you
sell them on why it's a good idea for
them to do it. Now, beyond that, it's
like, okay, now we got to let people
know about this thing. So, for me, I use
the same ones. I use my outreach, which
is talking to people who already know
me. I make my posts for content like
this video. And I'm going to be running
ads, which I'm actually just flowing
through our existing funnel. That's
going to be to pre-order and register
for the book. All of that that then ends
up here so that it spins the loop of
getting other people to ideally and
hopefully promote the book. It's going
to be awesome. You should totally do it.
Once we have that, we can't just like
leave them to flounder. We have to make
sure that they actually succeed. And so
we have onboarding activation with fast
feedback loops. They immediately get
their custom link. They know it's going
to work. they see regular leaderboards
so that they know that they're moving up
or that they're doing well. And then
beyond having the feedback loop, we want
to give them the stuff, right? We want
to give them regular communication which
is going to be the data and the cool
stuff that's happening behind the scene
plus the leaderboard obviously. And then
the winners is going to be like the ads
or the posts or the angles or hooks that
are outperforming. And so by doing this,
we set as many people up as humanly
possible for success. And then at the
very top end for the people who are in
that top 100 or top 50, my team actually
reaches out to them and says, "Hey, how
can we help you promote it and crush it
even more, we want you to win? Because
if you win and your audience wins, we
all win." And so fundamentally, that's
how you advertise for free. It's also
one of the most scalable ways to
advertise in any niche. It's been one of
the the core pillars of how I advertise.
I mean, like school, the majority of the
traffic is from people telling people
about it. Allen was almost entirely my
software company that we sold was almost
entirely off of affiliates. Prestige
Labs is almost 100% affiliate sales,
meaning the brick-andmortar distributors
who are actually selling the stuff at
their brick and mortars. And so it
doesn't matter also whether the people
who like, for example, for me it's like
I probably do have some gym owners who
have 100 members at their gym, will they
win the top 50? Probably not. Can they
make sure that they get all the 10 plus
and get a shot at getting in?
Absolutely. Right? And so I want to make
sure that somebody at the bottom and at
the top can still win. And if you follow
this stuff, you'll probably do pretty
good. And if you want more details um
about this, I have a monster chapter on
affiliates, which I actually had to cut
in half to even fit in the book because
there's so much stuff to really do it
right. Um that's inside of the leads
book in the affiliates chapter. You can
go check that out. With that being said,
if you are an affiliate, you can click
this link and you can become one. Or if
you just want to send your friends, you
just want to send your employees, you
just want to send your gym, you want to
send your pickle ball buddies, you want
to send human beings who like in who
like business to the event, I would love
to give you free stuff to do it because
I'd rather help you out rather than, you
know, give a king's ransom to the social
media platforms. So maybe that's our way
of banning the